h2. Synopsis

Ext.MQ is a simple message queue implementation with a webservice gateway for easy remoting. It simplyfies loose coupling between components and webservice communication a lot. 
I really didnt't like the Ext.Direct mechanism, so I developed this small class to connect a Ext application to a Zend Framework or Symfony backend.


h2. Setup

Just include *ext.mq.js* in Your html file and setup the webservice base url if it is different than */*:
<pre>
<code><script include="src/ext.mq.js"></script>
<script language="javascript">
    MQ.webserviceurl = '/api/';
</script></code>
</pre>

h2. Publishing messages

<pre>
<code><script language="javascript">
    MQ.publish('ui.detailscreen.show', {id: 'webrocker'});
</script></code>
</pre>

h2. Subscribing messages

<pre>
<code><script language="javascript">
    MQ.subscribe(/ui\.detailscreen\.(.*)/, myDetailscreenHandler);
</script></code>
</pre>

h2. Webservice gateway

Messages starting with *webservice.* are automagically converted into AJAX calls and the responses will be converted to messages, too.

<pre>
<code><script language="javascript">
    MQ.publish('webservice.ressource.user.create', {id: 'webrocker'});
</script></code>
</pre>

This message will translate into an AJAX call to */ressource/user/create/*. 
In case of success the result will be JSON-decoded and the resulting object will be sent in the message *webservice.ressource.user.create.success*.
If an error occurs the result will be sent in the message *webservice.ressource.user.create.failure*.

To implement an universal handler for webservice failures you can simply subscribe the whole namespace starting with *webservice* and ending with *failure* as follows:
<pre>
<code><script language="javascript">
    MQ.subscribe(\webservice/.(.*)/.failure\, myhandlerfunc);
</script></code>
</pre>

If you need another URL scheme, just overwrite the *MQ.urlgenerator* method.